[MRG] ntp rework managment (#7)
bluegenes/2020-gep: content/04.workflows-and-software.md

> ## Workflows facilitate data-intensive biology

Reviewer: Ya they do!!! Love this header

**A. Conda Recipe Repositories** Each program distributed via Conda has a "recipe" describing all software dependencies needed for Conda installation (each of which must also be installable via conda). These are stored and managed in separate "channels", some of which specialize (e.g. "bioconda" specializes in bioinformatic software, "r" specializes in R language packages) [@doi:10.1038/s41592-018-0046-7]. **B. Use Conda Environments to Avoid Installation Conflicts**  Conda does not require root

> privileges for software installation, thus enabling use by researchers working on shared cluster systems. However, even user-based software installation can encounter dependency conflicts. For example, you might need to use python2 to install and run a program (e.g. older scripts written by members of your lab), while also using snakemake to execute your workflows (requires python3.5). By installing each program into an isolated "environment" that contains only the software required to run that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
privileges for software installation, thus enabling use by researchers working on shared cluster systems. However, even user-based software installation can encounter dependency conflicts. For example, you might need to use python2 to install and run a program (e.g. older scripts written by members of your lab), while also using snakemake to execute your workflows (requires python>=3.5). By installing each program into an isolated "environment" that contains only the software required to run that
```

program, you can ensure all programs will run without issue. Using small, separate environments for your software and building many simple environments to accommodate different steps in your workflow also reduces the amount of time it takes conda to resolve dependency conflicts between different software tools ("solve" an environment). Conda virtual environments can be created and installed either on the command line, or via an environment YAML file, as shown. In this case, the environment file

> also specifies which Conda channels to search and download programs from. When specified in a YAML file, conda environments are easily transferable between computers and operating systems. Further, because the version of each package installed in an environment is recorded, workflow reproducibility is enhanced. Although portions of conda may be superceded by alternative solutions [@url:https://github.com/QuantStack/mamba], this model of software installation and management will likely

Reviewer: I love this last sentence!

> remain.](images/conda_figure.svg){#fig:conda_figure height=5in}

Author: ```suggestion
remain.](images/conda_figure.svg){#fig:conda_figure height=8in}
```
